---
layout: post
published: true
category: commentary
title: >-
  National Library of Korea Digital Collections / Comments on the Ernst Reading 
  Seung Hun Lee (Sam) Assignment 1
---
### National Library of Korea Digital Collections

[National Library of Korea](http://www.nl.go.kr/english/)'s  [Digital Collections](http://nlcollection.nl.go.kr/english/index.html) is an archive fitting the exact meaning of the archive: a collection of historical documents or records providing information about a place, institution, or group of people (Definition from Google). The digital collection is a set of around 20 collections of various Korean historical topics such as rare books, different wars in Korean peninsula, and history of textbooks. These collections are highly curated, each collections with extensive descriptions on each document as well as the collection as a whole.

Interesting aspect of this digital archive is that it has two different facades for two different audiences. One facade, as one might expect, is a Korean version of the website, catering to the Korean people. The other facade is an english version of the website, which has a completely different structure from the Korean version. The level of information access on two sites are different. Whereas the English version of the website looks nice and has a set of pictures leading to different collections with dynamic features, the Korean version of the website has a search bar at the first page, as well as pictures of some of the actual documents within the collection. Each collection page has nice descriptions in both English and Korean versions of the website, but Korean version seems to have more information and documents presented compared to the English version. It is obvious that the website caters to English tourists, visitors with a limited amount of knowledge about Korean history, and the general Korean population, visitors with more extensive knowledge of history who might be looking for more detailed documents.

The archive provides historical context of the collection as a whole and of each document in the collection, and it appears that most of the material has a good amount of description of the contents of the material as well in some circumstances. As a whole, the archive tries to give the visitors a historical overview of Korea, with heavy emphasis on Joseon Dynasty as well as modern South Korea.

The design of the English version of the archive invites a visitor to tour through the the materials, giving the user an almost step-by-step route to explore through the archive. However, the English version does not give the user much opportunity to search for certain type of information. On the other hand, the Korean version does allow the user to dig through the digital materials and discover new documents, encouraging Korean visitors to dig more deeply through the documents.

Overall, this digital archive provides an interesting look at how same materials can be presented in completely different ways for vastly different groups of audiences. Even though the English version of the website does not have information as in-depth as the Korean version, it is a great example of where a more minimal interface might be more useful to a different type of audience.

### Comments on readings from "Digital Memory and the Archive"

The reading provides an interesting insight on the idea of archives changing as the technology changes. The "archives" or memory is no longer just a storage, but rather a transfer through spatiotemporal transfer. However, I do not agree that this is due to the technological discontinuity mentioned by Ernst. Rather, this is a continuity in advancement of technology. Latency has always been present, as time it takes to get a document from one place to another physically. Access time would be the time it would take for a person to find the document and place it where it is wanted. As technology advanced, data became increasingly easy to access, transfer and store, and this advancement is not entirely unique to the arrival of digital age. Additionally, any document is temporary - papers rot, rocks become degraded and metal rusts - and can be edited - images can be painted over, documents could be burnt, statues can be melted and rebuilt. Only difference now is that a lot of data have potential to be changed a lot more easily. It is the social change, enabled by technological advancements, in how we share and utilize these archives that is directly changing the nature of archives themselves. One thing that I concur with the reading is that the dynamic storage is a lot closer to human memory than cultural memory. In fact, this dynamic storage has gotten to the point where it is being used to mimic human thoughts themselves. With the advent of the Artificial Intelligence, we are now at a point in which the boundaries between technology and culture blur and the two intertwine to become something new.
