---
layout: post
published: false
category: commentary
title: CAVS / Commentary from Digital Memory and the Archive
---
### Center for Advanced Visual Studies - Special Collection
[Center for Advanced Visual Studies - Special Collection](http://act.mit.edu/cavs/)

My initial impression is I accidently clicked on an ad. There is bright white text glaring off of a black background with bright red and blue links. Slightly apprehensive I continued. The next thing I notice is a wonderful scroll user interaction. The words appear to plaster themselves on to a side wall, giving a 3D effect. It is reminiscent of the Star Wars opening sequence of scrolling words. The experience is very engaging, but does it take away from the materials it is presenting? By double clicking sideways words you are taken on another adventure, scrolling through different related works, but it is unclear how to return other than scrolling all the way back.  And then there are pictures layered upon pictures. Once clicked they take you to pages that are much clearer to navigate with the title, institution, and subjects, as well as similar images. After some exploration I found that the list of words in red "Works, People, About, Search" each lead to a specific page that allows for much more structured searches. The initial scrolling adventure seems more for casual explorers, giving them a chance to wet their palette before delving into particular topics.  

This particular archive initially sat beyond my expectations for an archive. It appeared to be more of a visual experience and an engaging example of JavaScript. After looking more closely it does still fall under my expectations of an archive. It has lists of subjects, organized both by people and by topic. It has a search function that allows a narrowing of topics. 

The intended audience makes the elaborate design of the website make more sense. Since this is a special collection from the Center for Advanced Visual Studies, the audience will likely include students exploring Visual Studies, artists and academics exploring the posters, subjects, and images from the artists who were artist-fellows at CAVS. The narrative offers connections to more information of works/similar works, and the context is mostly limited to the artist, title, date, and subjects the piece falls under. 

The archive made a good impression on me - I love UX design, but I think it requires a learning period for new users. It may also make it more difficult for the less tech-savvy users to engage with the work to the same degree. Overall I think it fits the work that is put into the archive, and is a very interesting site to navigate. 

### Digital Memory and the Archive Commentary

When we talk about archiving the past, it is easy to see photographs as logically the best connection we have. What we have to be wary about is assuming that the photographs can be read as truth, somehow separated from human interpretation. According to Barthes, "the photograph is, in fact, an inscription of the real, in physical (a unique moment of light) and chemical (emulsion as storage) terms" (48). While that is true, and the photograph does have a real place in the past, photographs can also have very biased representations of the world. It does not quite "… [liberate] the past from historical discourse" (48). In fact, photography may give more insight into what was considered significant, important, or powerful in the past based on what was captured, how it was captured, and if it was conserved. In this way historical discourse is embedded in photography. Mis-en-scene is a word used in cinema studies to describe what is put in front of the camera, usually referring to costumes, scenery, props, lighting and other delicate additions to change perception of a moment.  Although mis-en-scene can be obvious elements in films, like a striking color worn by a single character, the idea of changing reality gives us a chance to think about how photographs are "edited" before they are taken.  For example, some questions we must ask ourselves if we think of images of historical landmarks are, who is in the picture? Would they be there normally or were they staged in the image? What time of day was it taken? Is the area empty because they photographed at night? Does the angle of the camera hide something from the picture?

Generally I want to use these questions to bring attention to the nature of items in an archive. While it would be nice to trust everything can be assigned the same amount of trust, including photographs, it is unlikely that is the case. How we present objects from an archive can be used to show what we know about the objects and if they align with other historical documents.

