---
layout: post
published: true
category: commentary
title: Kavya Week 5
author: Kavya Ravichandran
---
## BAM Thoughts

First off, I think this is an incredibly powerful project, and I look forward to tackling it and hopefully creating something of value for the community.

I think it would be very cool to create a network of the people and entities that corresponded. We could build this by looking at letters between individuals (or signatories of open letters). It seems like it would be difficult to prototype this sort of network on a smaller scale, because subgraphs are not necessarily representative of the overall graph. With that said, we could still build an interesting visualization with a smaller number of individuals. 

In the end, I think we would be remiss to not try to tell individual stories, as well. We could develop timelines from the documents and present the original documents for completeness, and we could also pull out representative quotes. On these pages, we should include responses by those who had personal relations with them, whether familial, professional, doctor-patient, role-model, etc. 

It might be interesting to look at the way words used to describe African Americans and African American doctors have shifted over time. 

## Participatory Heritage

I think in the context of our project, it would be important to allow participation by the families, peers, and patients of those whose stories we seek to tell. According to the reading, the big change between the cathedral model and the bazaar model is the shift in the role of the expert from authoritative to facilitatory. Here, we should ensure that the curators of the archive play a smaller role in making arguments after the initial phase of development and shift to a moderator role.