---
layout: post
published: true
category: commentary
title: Week 6 -- Kavya
author: Kavya Ravichandran
---
## Readings

I think the issues brought up can be roughly categorized into two themes: (1) the loss of information associated with changing the representation/media and (2) compatibility of different filetypes long term (this was especially visible with the Warhol article). 

The Dietrich paper brings up many interesting points about preserving fidelity in the way that we might seek to preserve the truth in forensic evidence. While reading it, I realized that I had visited traditional archives (e.g., at the Smithsonian) and I had also visited an FBI evidence room, which made me consider how they were similar and different. Both had a lot of methodical record-keeping. The archive was much more welcoming and ceremonial, reflecting its status as a cultural hub, in some sense, while the evidence room was more Spartan, with rows of chests for different kinds of evidence. I think a lot of the design decision one makes when developing new archives (digital, in particular), are directly related to intended use. 

In that sense, it makes sense to consider loss of information along a given dimension. For example, if the goal of an archive is to provide a set of texts, it's much more important to make sure the words of the text are clear and accessible than, perhaps, maintaining the fidelity of the texture of the paper these were intially printed on. The Rekrut paper discusses the criteria that allow us to evaluate the effectiveness of an online archive, so this is something we should consider while building ours, and we should also discuss whether the list of criteria requires augmenting (sneak preview of my discussion questions!).